Try a different version of one of India’s most loved sweet, Gulab Jamun. So, if you have milk powder at home, you can easily turn it into Mawa and make those delicious, soft and sweet Gulab Jamuns.

Ingredients

1 cup ilk Powder (135 grams)
1/2 cup Full cream milk
1/4 cup unsalted butter (55 grams)
10-12 pieces cashew nuts
7-8 Cardamom
10-12 Pistachios
Maida (refined flour)
4-5 tsp Ghee for frying gulab jamun

For Sugar Syrup

2 cups Sugar (400 grams)

STEP 1: PREPARING MAWA

For preparing Mawa, take butter in pan and melt it; add milk and mix well. Cook it on low flame.
Now add milk powder and stir constantly till the mixture attains the texture of Mawa.
Once, Mawa is ready, turn off the flame and take it out in a bowl.

STEP 2: PREPARING STUFFING

Cut cashew nuts and pistachios in fine pieces.
Peel the cardamom and make a coarse powder.
Keep half the cardamom powder for adding in sugar syrup.
Take rest of the cardamom powder, diced cashews and pistachios, 1 tbsp mawa, 1-2 tsp milk and mix all the ingredients to prepare the stuffing.

STEP 3: PREPARE SUGAR SYRUP

Put sugar and 1 cup water in a bowl and cook until sugar dissolves completely. Now check the sugar syrup. For this drop 1-2 drops on a plate. With help of your thumb and finger check the syrup. It should be gooey in texture.
Formation of one thread or two thread is not necessary. Sugar syrup is now ready, turn off the flame.
Add cardamom powder in the syrup and mix well.

STEP 4: KNEAD THE MAWA

Place the Mawa in a plate. Add 4 tsp maida and knead until it gets smooth in texture. If the mixture appears to be dry add small amount of milk into it. Add little milk at a time with help of a spoon and knead well. Within 6-7 mins mawa will get soft.

STEP 5: PREPARE GULAB JAMUN

Preheat oil in a pan. Take little amount of mixture and make a round ball and place it in pan for frying.
Instead of turning over the gulab jamun, you can also pour oil over the gulab jamun with the help of ladle.
Fry until it gets golden brown in color.
If the gulab jamun is prepared easily, you can use this mixture for making more but if the gulab jamun splits in oil, then the mixture cannot be used for making gulab jamun.
Add 2-3 tsp maida in mawa, knead well and again check the mixture.
If the gulab jamun is ready, use the mixture for making rest.
Take little amount of mixture, roll and then flatten it. Place 1/4 tsp stuffing on it and make a round ball covering the stuffing. Keep the ready gulab jamun on plate and prepare the rest likewise.

STEP 6: FRY THE GULAB JAMUN

Place 3-4 gulab jamuns in oil and fry.
Keep in mind that while frying the gulab jamun doesn’t come in contact with the ladle.
Take out the fried gulab jamun and place on plate with napkin paper.
After 1-2 minutes, put in sugar syrup. Likewise prepare all gulab jamun.
Let the gulab jamun drench in sugar syrup for 5-6 hours so that they get apt sweetness.